{:title "Memento Pattern"
 :layout :post
 :klipse {:settings {:codemirror-options-out {:line-numbers false}}}
 :tags  ["Clojure" "Design Pattern" "Java" "Software" "Behavrioral"]}


### Intent

>Without violating encapsulation, capture and externalize an object’s internal state so that the object can be restored to this state later.

So want to be able to return to a previous state.

### In clojure

Clojure's primary database [Datomic](http://www.datomic.com/) is append only. This means you never lose state
a previous state. 

> Critical insights come from knowing the full story of your data, not just the
> most recent state. Datomic stores a record of immutable facts, which gives
> your applications strong consistency combined with horizontal read
> scalability, plus built-in caching. Since facts are never update-in-place and
> all data is retained by default, you get built-in auditing and the ability to
> query history. All of this with fully ACID-compliant transactions. 

The reality is that the GOF book talks about returning to a previous state "in memory" but 
has little to say about persistent storage. In clojure, or in any language, if you want to
save a previous state i suggest a simple log. Possible a sufficient version of this is to use a vector:

```klipse-cljs
(def drews-life (atom []))
```

```klipse-cljs
(swap! drews-life conj "born")
```

```klipse-cljs
(swap! drews-life conj "died")
```

get the current state

```klipse-cljs
(last @drews-life)
```

### summery

Maintaining real business logic state is something that really belongs in the database. Throwing away data
is a business decision. Datomic errors on the side that more data is better sense storage is cheap. (though of course
you can clean up unused data).

If you need to keep a history of something in memory, then a vector along side clojures stateful abstractions
will probably do.

