{:title "Camphor"
 :layout :post
 :klipse {:settings {:codemirror-options-out {:line-numbers false}}}
 :date "2021-1-15"
 :tags  ["KingKiller" "Fantasy"]}


## Camphor

_In the end, they were all of them deceived_

_For though they knew the safe and prideful path._

_Their hearts new true._ 

_And so as they turned their heads once in wrong,_ 

_they turned again to renew:_

SROST:10:139

> Sulfonium inside a jar of stone. Racks of powders, salts and earths and herbs.
> Oils and unguents. Fourteen waters. Twicelime. Camphor. All perfect. All true.

> Honey and laurel might have been enough if this were a simple poet’s candle. But
> he was no mere poet. She needed something more. A pinch of camphor would have
> been ideal. Just a pinch, a spark, a hint of something volatile. But she had no
> camphor, and there was no sense in wishing. So she fetched a daub of perfect
> pitch instead from Port.

In the interest of fairness I'll explain my idea here, rather then leave it to
poetry. Which implies i have some deep understanding here, which i don't. I
think both meanings to volatile are relevant here. The first being an
inclination to change rabidly, unpredictable, for the worse. Kvothe is certainly
that to some degree already. I suspect Auri is _deeply_ conflicted on shaping
him more so. The second meaning, that a substance is volatile if changes from
liquid to gas at low (say normal) temperature might be an explanation of how the
Seven are
[gas](https://www.reddit.com/r/KingkillerChronicle/comments/evvie5/the_chandrian_signs_are_full_of_gas/),
and how move from place to place. NOTW:16:124

> Haliax spread his arms and the shadow surrounding him bloomed like a flower
> unfolding. Then, each of the others turned with a studied ease and took a step
> toward Haliax, into the shadow surrounding him. But as their feet came down
> they slowed, and gently, as if they were made of sand with wind blowing across
> them, they faded away. Only Cinder looked back, a hint of anger in his
> nightmare eyes.

Auri was supposed to shape Kvothe to volatile, she _declined_. A small thing,
and yet it might make all the difference.



