{:title "Blood Beneath"
 :layout :post
 :previews? false
 :date "2021-2-11"
 :tags  ["KingKiller" "Fantasy"]}
 
# Intro 

_You shine like a diamond_
<br>
_Pull me in like a siren_
<br>
_I'd abandon this ship for you (oh, oh, oh)_
<br>
_You're my favourite addiction_
<br>
_And I'm never quitting_
<br>
_Couldn't give up the taste of you (oh, oh, oh)_

-- "To tell you the Truth" ~ [written by wolves](https://writtenbywolves.com/)

This is a continuation of [Warren Widdershins Ways and
Woes](/posts-output/2021-1-15-bone-and-crystal), where we followed brave Auri as
she visited the Mauthen Farm and Newarre, for reasons we have yet to piece
together. But to understand the journey we must understand the traveler. And so
we must back track before her journey a bit. A story is never a straight road
and so we move in slow circles around it. How young and brave we are, how
proud... how foolish, we do not know the weight of this song or we would dare
not approach it's pull and its terrible need.

I have terrible secrets to share with you, but if we don't have a proper telling of Auri's tale
then you will reach the wrong conclusions and the world will be worse off for it. 

## Inhale

So we must discuss Auri.

Auri is ...How can I explain a person? Elodin says we can't really even understand a rock.
He talks about it's shape and size, but there is more to it then that. It's how we see the rock,
what it means to us.... what she means to you.

She is Auri then. You should know her, remember her graceful movement clever
smile. Oh, recall when she saved that sunk, even though it bit her. Or when she
fixed that pipe so the those above could have their bath and never worry over
how the water flows beneath. And her love for kvothe and his music. Her large
eyes wide in wonder, I imagine her clapping all overflowing with exuberance, her
hair rippling in the cool night air.

Think of that, think of a special moment you have had with her as we move
forward. She needs your help. She needs your understanding.

## hold

On the first day, Auri woke up full of energy, she had her sweetest soap and the floor was warm.
Everything her mantelpiece was just as it should be:

TODO
> And above
> that was the mantelpiece: her yellow leaf, her box of stone, her grey glass jar
> with sweet dried lavender inside. Nothing was nothing else.

As previously discussed she has a busy day finding things. TO start she takes a
dive into a pool and gathers some interesting items from it's depths then she visits the Muathen 
farm and Newarre. Quite the day. Day two, things start off well to, but start to turn sour as she
is witnesses a bad omen:

TODO 652
> Grinning at herself, she brushed the elf
> knots from her hair until it hung around her like a golden cloud. But just as
> she was finishing, when she lifted up her arms to push her cloud of hair behind
> her, Auri staggered just a bit, all sudden dizzy. After it passed, she walked
> slowly to Cricklet and took a long, deep drink. She felt the cool water run all
> along her insides with nothing to stop it. She felt hollow inside. Her stomach
> was an empty fist. Her feet wanted to go to Applecourt, but she knew there were
> no apples left. He wouldn’t be waiting there, anyway. Not until the seventh day.
> Which was good, really. She had nothing suitable to share.

She gets some food from Tree and travels back to the Grey Twelve. She says it's where
she found the Fulcrum.

> Just to be sure, Auri carried the gear back to where she’d found it.

Though yesterday she called the Pool she found it in was called the yellow
twelve. Auri might name things based on her mood, Let's just call it the Tweleve
for now. More importantly, she is given a sign:

> Looking up, Auri saw the shape of a nightjar outlined
> against the dull grey circle of light entering the grate high above. The bird
> struck something hard against the pipe, then ate it. A snail, she guessed. There
> was no need to guess the type of pipe though. The ting of it let Auri know it
> was iron, black and twice the thicken of her thumb. The nightjar tapped the pipe
> again, then dipped down to the pool to drink. After it drank, the bird winged
> quickly back to its previous perch. Back to the pipe. Back to stand in the
> center of the dim grey light. It tapped a third and final time. Auri’s gut went
> cold. She sat up straight and eyed the bird intently. It stared back at her for
> a long moment, then flew away, having done what it had come to do. She looked
> after it numbly, the chill in her gut making a slow knot. She couldn’t ask for
> things to be more clear than that. Her pulse began to hammer at her then, her
> palms all sudden sweat.

She races off to Tenance



Auri thinks something is wrong and  she is right. There are footprints in the
Underthing and they tale she doesn't like. Her breathing tells a tale I don't
like either. 

SROST:863:

> Never mind the motion, the water stays unchanged. That was the proper way of
> things.
> 
> She slowly closed the heavy door behind her. She checked the latch to make
> herself most certain sure. Stepping back into the Underthing, the stones should
> have been sweet beneath her feet. But they were not. They were mere stones. **The
> air seemed strange and strained. Something was wrong.** She stopped and listened
> at the door again. She listened closer, then opened up the door a crack to peer
> inside. Nothing. She closed the door and checked the latch. She leaned her
> weight against the door and tried to sigh but could **not find the breath for it
> inside her chest. Something was wrong.** She had forgotten something. Auri ran
> back to Rubric, heart stuttering as she turned wrong. Then wrong again. But then
> she found the valve again. She went down on her knees to make herself most
> certain sure she’d turned it open and not closed. She put both hands upon the
> pipe and felt the tremble of the water running through. Not that then. But
> still. Had she moved carefully enough? Had she left a smudge up o n the floor?
> Auri sprinted back to Tenance and put her ear against the door. Nothing. She
> opened the door and lifted Foxen high so that his light shone down onto the
> dust. Nothing. By now her skin was all asheen with sweat. She closed the heavy
> door. She checked the latch and leaned her slender weight against it, pressing
> with her hands and forehead. **She tried to breathe more deeply but her heart was
> stiff and tight inside her chest. There was something wrong about the air.**  The
> door refused to sit right in its frame. She pressed against it with both palms.
> She checked the latch. Foxen’s light seemed suddenly too thin. Had she moved
> carefully enough? No. She knew. She listened, then opened up the door and looked
> again. Nothing. But simply seeing did not help. She knew that seeming wasn’t
> hardly half of things. Something was wrong. She tried, but she could simply not
> unclench. **She could not catch her breath.** The stones beneath her feet were
> nothing like her stones. She needed to get somewhere safe. Despite the stones,
> the strangeness in the air, Auri started walking back to Mantle. She took the
> safest way, but even so **her steps were slow. And even so, she sometimes had to
> stop and close her eyes and merely breathe.** **And even so, the breathing hardly
> helped. How could it when the air itself had gone untrue?** The angles were all
> wrong in Pickering but she didn’t realize how lost she had become until she
> looked around and found herself in Scaperling. She did not know how she had come
> to be so out of place, but there was no denying where she was. The damp was all
> around. The smell of rot. The grit under her feet. The way the walls were
> leering. She turned and turned again but could not find her place. She tried to push ahead. She
> knew that if she walked and turned and walked eventually she must leave grim,
> gritty Scaperling behind. She would come out into a friendly place. Or at least
> a place that did not twist and cramp and loom all round her. So she walked and
> turned and looked around, hoping beyond hope for a glimpse of the familiar.
> Hoping that the stones might slowly start to belong underneath her feet. But no.
> The **hammer of her heart told her to run**. She needed her safe place. She needed
> to get back to Mantle. But where was the way of it? Even if she knew the way,
> the **air was growing tight and dizzy all around her**. Though she was loath to
> touch them, Auri stretched her hand to lean against the sharp unkindness of the
> wall. Slow steps. A turn. She smiled to see things open up ahead of her.
> Finally. Her chest began to loosen up when finally she saw the end of Scaperling
> ahead. She took two steps before she realized what way it offered out. She
> stopped. No. No no. The tangle of unwelcome tunnel opened up ahead. But it
> opened out into the vast and empty quiet of Black Door. Auri did not even turn
> around. She merely took step after slow and sliding step back the same way she
> had come. It was hard. The wall caught at her hand and worried it, scraping skin
> off of her knuckles. The damp tight knot of Scaperling did not want her back
> inside. But Black Door did. The wide and welcome path to Black Door stretched
> before her like a dark black open mouth. A maw. A maul. Step after step she
> forced her way backward into Scaperling. She did not dare to let the way to
> Black Door out of sight. She did not dare let it behind her, all unseen.
> Unseemly. All unseamed. Finally she backed around a corner and sank trembling to
> the floor. She needed everything to not come all apart around her. She needed to
> get back to Mantle. She needed her most perfect place. There the stones were
> safe under her feet. There everything was **sweet** and proper true. She was dizzy
> and askant and slant. She shook and could not bring herself to stand, so she
> folded herself in and sat crosslegged upon the floor. She sat there for a long
> and silent while. She closed her eyes. She closed her mouth. She covered Foxen
> with her hand. All small she sat. All still. The grubby dank of Scaperling got
> in her hair, made it hang heavy. She let her tangleness fall all around her in a
> curtain. It made a tiny space inside. It was a small space just for her. Auri
> opened up her eyes and looked into this tiny private place. She saw brave Foxen
> bravely shining in the sheltgger of her hands. She uncovered him, and even though
> his light was thin and thready, the sight of him in this small space made Auri
> smile. She felt around inside herself for her true perfect name and though it
> took a long and lonesome moment, finally she felt it there. It was shivery and
> scant. Scared. Skint. But just around the edges it was still scintillant. It was
> still hers. It shone. Moving slowly, Auri stood and made her slow way out of
> Scaperling. **The air was thick and shuddersome**. The walls were full of spite. The
> stones begrudged her every step. All everything was snarling allapart. But even
> so she found her way to Pickering, the walls were merely sullen there. Then she
> made her way to Dunnings. Then Auri finally felt the stones of Mantle underneath
> her feet. She lightly stepped inside her oh most perfect place. She washed her
> face and hands and feet. It helped. She sat for a long moment in her perfect
> chair. **She enjoyed her perfect leaf. She breathed the lovely ordinary air.** Her
> skin no longer felt stretched tight. Her heart grew buttery and warm. Foxen was
> fulsome again, even effulgent.


> Auri went to Van and brushed her hair until the damp and tangle were all gone.
> **She drew a breath and sighed it out.** Her name was **sweet** inside her chest. All
> things were in their proper place again. **She grinned.**

## Exhale

As we


# End



But if your tired of secrets, or if you feel you know all the stars and their
names, then follow me deeper. Not a gentle fall, this is no fairy tale, pitch
into black, the ground rushes to meet us... and we shatter upon the
[truth](/posts-output/2021-2-11-betrayed).

## Credits

To u/drue801 who got the heart of the
[story](https://www.reddit.com/r/KingkillerChronicle/comments/ez5qyi/auri_why/)
correct. But some important details wrong, they have my respect for being brave enough to not turn away.

_Take me now, oh_
<br>
_Feel your breath as it heightens_
<br>
_Your chest start to tighten_

<br>
_Let euphoria surround you_
<br>
_Like planets colliding_
<br>
_You stare in my eyes and..._
<br>
_I watch it ignite in you_

-- "To tell you the Truth" ~ [written by wolves](https://writtenbywolves.com/)

