{:title "The Blinding Darkness"
 :layout :page
 :toc true
 :page-index 41}
 

_Stop and listen._  
_I shall tell a tale long told,_  
_and in its fold a finding._   
_Of how shadows cast a blinding light,_  
_and how to see clearly requires a starless night_  

Felurian names no names but tells us that the enemy, of the dark and _changing eye_, stole the moon and sparked the creation war. It was then defeated and locked beyond the doors of stone. Hespe tells a story of Jax, a broken boy, who might be unlucky because a _demon was riding his shadow_ and how he steals the moon. And Bast says that Iax spoke to the Cthaeh before he stole the moon and so were lead to believe that Iax/Jax is the enemy shut beyond the doors of stone. 

Skarpi tells us that after the Blac of Drossen Tor, Lanre lay dead near a beast with scales of _black iron_, whose breath was a darkness that _smothered_ men. Encanis, finally trapped in Tehlu's _black iron_ wheel was a darkness that _swallowed_ men. Sky iron, aka loden stone, is a iron that's black, but we can't be sure that all black iron is loden stone. But given it _draws and pulls_ it would be fitting for it to bind Encanis and it play a role in Lanre's tale as well.

When Lanre comes to Selitos before he betrays Myr Tariniel, he wears black iron scales of the beast he slew, and when he binds Selitos, it's said Lanre's power lays about him like an _iron vise_, implying the beast or it's master is the source of his new found power. That power which is like a _hot knife_ in his mind, a nearly direct tie to Encanis, whose voice is a _knife_ in the minds of men. But the references to Lanre being bound to shadow don't stop there. Selitos says he could kill Lanre, but he would return, pulled like _loden stone_. Arliden's discussion of the Chandrian makes mention of "yoked to shadow", and though he doesn't know the meaning, we start see the edges of it. Yoked meaning "joined", the original old English word for fasting a pair of draft animals. Shehyn's story of the seven's sign tells us that Alaxel bears the shadow's hame.  A "hame", is part of the mechanism attached to a horse in order to pull things. The similarities are clear, both imply a beast joined and burdened. In Lanre's case, joined to shadow. As in life, so in name, Lanre's new names seem merged with Iax/Lax in both A-Lax-el and Hal-Iax. Laid out like this, the conclusion is as relentless as Tehlu's hammer, Elodin's warning about changing names the anvil. Lanre's nature, maybe his name, has been bound to Iax. And it might be that Iax, or this shadow, can't die.

Nothing in Hespe's story suggests Iax is a dancer, but Felurian mentions the enemy was _of the changing eye_ which could imply either that his eye color changes, a trait that Kvothe, Felurian and Bast display and so might be common to all those partially fae. Or it might imply this enemy could change eyes, as in, change bodies. To lend the idea support we need to come at from another direction, Kote remarks that the dancers are supposed to "look like a dark shadow or smoke when they leave". A description is similar both to how Kvothe see's the Chandrian leave and of Haliax's departure from Selitos. At this point, things would tie together nicely if it was sky iron that trapped a dancer _in_ a body, but Kote says that's holly, though maybe he is wrong, it's been known to happen. Bast further discourages the idea by telling us that a dancer, while hurt by iron, would be able to remove it. Though two points of further inquiry come from the dialogue, first, if iron can be removed, why not holly? Secondly, Bast mentions they can make you pull out your own eye and I can't help but wonder if Selitos wasn't possessed by the same shadow. Blood can be used for a source of heat in a pinch, but an eye goes too far. 

Between the lines of Skarpi's story there is room to believe more then the straightforward telling that Lanre is responsible for this union in seeking magics better left alone. We can find the space for another tale in shadows where good men choose to not seek. Upon the bloody field where non dare look, upon Lyra's grief. Three times she called and three times he did not answer. Skarpi says he rose, Arlidan that some _say_ he rose to fall again, under shadows falling then. What choice was left to her, love of her life lost? What powers might she have borrowed to save him? Might she have broken herself, and in the pieces born a shadow of sorrow.

Bast speaks of what a powerful shaper might do, make a fire more than a fire. But he stops short of speaking on what they might do with a shadow. His silence is deafening and it defines an idea I can't shake, that one could bend a shadow into a man. Not wholly risen, but a shadow shaped. The very thing that comes for the Lady in "How Old holly came to be" a story about a singer who bends a holly tree into a man to fight a shadow bent to look like one. These themes dance around themselves in slow circles, always broken, always given us a choice. I want to say more, but Skarpi was right, too much truth makes you sound insincere. And anything I say with certainty can be disputed; anything I claim to be true can be cast in the shade.

But If I close my eyes, I see the starless night, and in it I know the nameless by the hole it leaves in the story. Selitos spoke the long name that lay within Lanre's heart, and at it, the sun grew dark. His doom was to be held in shadow, but Selitos curse wasn't the shadow itself, but the **reveling of it**. The shadow was there already, joined or wrought, I know not which. 

Between the threads of the story, a shinning truth lies and somewhere there lies a hidden truth. I leave you to ponder and weigh the wait, and think on the nameless shadow's fate. Know it by its signs, blight and bitter flame, winter's night and endless night, the absent friend and wide uncaring tide. We wrap ourselves in it's whole cloth and refuse to know it for the lie it is. And so we take the easy route, it's a beast that jumps from person to person, something to be meet with bright swords and powerful magics. All the while the shadow rides us, for we refuse to name it.
